Project ReportNFL Attendance & Feature Statistics1. IntroductionFootball and NFL games are a major part of American culture. Millions of fans, families, and friends attend and watch games each season. But does the performance of a team influence if fans attend a game in the stadium? While it is often assumed that attendance is higher when a team is performing well, what other statistics play a factor in attendance? And do fans remain loyal even when their team is struggling, or do they only show up when their team is winning? In this project, we investigated how NFL team game statistics influence in-person attendance at NFL stadiums. Specifically, we will look at factors like turnover and winning percentage. What statistics influence the attendance of NFL games. What things do fans like to see and what things do fans prefer not to watch?2. DataIn this project we use a dataset from Kaggle containing a variety of NFL statistics, and along with attendance data sourced from ESPN.com By merging these datasets, we will explore how specific football statistics correlate with attendance pattern, along with recent NFL attendance trends, and what statistics play the biggest role on increased attendance. 2.1 Team Stats DataThe first data source we used was a pre-existing dataset named ‘team_stats_2003_2023.csv’ from Kaggle. Data contained within the source was obtained by Nick Cantalupa by using Python BeautifulSoup4 and Selenium WebDriver to pull the html data from www.pro-football-reference.com.  The data file contains data on 672 teams across 21 seasons, from 2003 through 2023. To clean the data, we first put the data into a data frame and changed the data types to be the appropriate format. We looked at the data for any duplicated records to make sure that our analysis would not be skewed in any way. After that, we dropped the columns that we no longer needed to do our analysis. This left us with the following columns: ‘year’, ‘team’, ‘wins’, ‘losses’, ‘win_loss_perc’, ‘total_yards’, and ‘turnovers.2.2 Attendance DataWe also scraped data from ESPN, which contains fan attendance data for every NFL team. This data was scraped using Selenium WebDriver. We wrote a web scraping script using the html code that allows us to scrap the team's name, attendance for both home and away games, total attendance, and average attendance. The data was scraped for 2023 – 2010 season not including 2020 season to get a more comprehensive look at the trends across the years. This data was put into a data frame, and was cleaned. We had to rename the columns to understand what year each column was from before merging all the seasons into one data frame. Additionally, the wide data had to be changed to long data to be merged with the key statistics data frame. 2.3 Combing Team Stats and Attendance DataAfter scraping our attendance data from ESPN, we created a new data frame for each year. Then we cleaned the data set obtained from Kaggle. To combine the data frames of the scraped data and the preexisting dataset we had to change the scraped data from long to wide data. This helped in lining up the years so that they were consistent.  The two data frames were merged into one by ‘year’ and ‘team’, containing all the information that was needed from our analysis. Merged Data DictionaryColumnTypeDescriptionteamFloatName of the NFL teamyearNumericThe year of that seasonAverage Fan AttendanceNumericThe average fan attendance in that seasonFan AttendanceNumericThe total fan attendance in that seasonwinsNumericThe number of wins in that seasonlossesNumericThe number of losses in that seasonwin_loss_percNumericThe percentage of wins or losses in a seasontotal_yardsNumericThe total yards in that seasonturnoversNumericThe total turnovers in that season3. Analysis1. What teams have seen an increase in attendance over the years?   As our data only comes from 2010 – 2023 we expected to see an increase in NFL attendance as teams become more popular and stadiums become bigger. However, with the recent pandemic and availability through tv and steaming services to watch games overall trends may be seeing a decrease in attendance. By using the scraped data from ESPN.com, we can analyze the trends of all 32 NFL teams. Using a line graph, we can see that the Dallas Cowboys consistently have the highest average attendance. In addition, we can see that Bangles are towards the bottom year after year.    First, we found the team that has seen the biggest increase since 2010. We could subtract 2023 attendance from 2010 attendance. We saw that the Tampa Bay Buccaneers have seen the biggest increase in attendance.             Further, we wanted to look at the trends across all of the NFL teams in the league. These results are seen in the graphs below.        Further, we wanted to analyze the teams that have the highest average attendance and lowest average attendance over the years. By filtering the data frames on the total average attendance since 2010 we can see that the top 10 teams in attendance are seeing a slight declining trend since 2012, but since COVID in 2020 we are seeing teams back up in attendance numbers.        In addition, by looking at the bottom 10 in terms of average attendance we can see that those teams are seeing a very volatile trend in average attendance. This means that teams who experience the lowest average attendance in the NFL fluctuate a lot from year to year. We can see an increase from 2021 to 2022 which is most likely from the pandemic. 2. Is there a strong correlation between the winning percentage of a team and the attendance for that year? Does there seem to be higher attendance when teams are winning more?       To determine if there is any correlation between win percentage and attendance for teams, we ran a correlation in Jupiter notebook the results can be seen below. 	       From these results we can see that the correlation is closer to 0 than 1 or –1. This signifies that there is no correlation between the win percentage and average attendance. We also wanted to visualize this data by using a scatterplot. That figure can be seen below.        From the visual we can see a very slight positive relationship but as the correlation value shows this value does not indicate any real pattern or correlation. As we saw in the analysis of the top and bottom teams in terms of attendance in question 1. There seems to be some volatility in the bottom teams in terms of attendance, so we also wanted to look at the correlation of the top and bottom teams in terms of average attendance.              In our top team analysis, we found there is no correlation between average attendance and the team winning percentage. This leads us to believe the teams who have the biggest attendance have the most loyal fans.                     In addition, in running a Pearson correlation test we also want to visually see how the top 10 teams looked in terms of average attendance and winning percentage by year.        We also looked at the bottom teams in terms of average attendance. In this test we found that there is correlation between the winning percentage and the average attendance of these bottom 10 teams. This leads us to believe that the teams who experience lower average attendance have fans that are fair weather fans. Meaning that they only like to watch when their team is doing well.         In addition to running a Pearson test, we also wanted to look at these teams visually. From the visual we can see that continued relationship. As the winning percentage goes up so does the average attendance in the stadium. 3. What team has seen the highest attendance over the last 3 years? Specifically, what are the three teams that have seen the best attendance over the last three years? We also wanted to look at just the most recent years and see if that was consistent with the all-time attendance records. We first plotted all of the teams against one another by year. We found that once again the Dallas Cowboys lead in all 3 years. However, the next two were hard to tell by just the visual chart.       Because it was hard to tell who the top 3 were over the last three years, we filtered further and plotted the top 3 on a bar graph. On this graph you can see how the Dallas Cowboys are well above even the next two teams in total attendance. 4. Is there a strong correlation between turnovers and attendance in that year?       We then looked at how turnovers affect attendance. To do this we ran correlation test along with visualizing the data with a scatter plot and trend line. We first looked at the data as a whole to see if there were any significant trends. From the Pearson correlation test we found that there is a significant relationship as you can see the results below.                    In addition, we also visualized this data with a scatter plot and trend line. From the graph that you can see below we found that as turnovers increase the average fan attendance decreases. This is a negative relationship that makes sense as fans do not like to watch their teams throw touchdowns.             In addition, we also did an analysis of how turnovers affect the top 10 and bottom 10 teams in terms of attendance. The top ten teams have no significant relationship as you can see in the results below.                     However, even though there is no significant relationship you can see from the graph that there is a slight positive relationship, that means as turnovers increase so does fan attendance. This goes to show that the top 10 teams have a very loyal fan base that does not depend on the play of their team.              In our bottom 10 analysis we saw again that there is no significant relationship. You can see the results of our Pearson correlation test below. We saw the opposite relationship in the graph that we saw for the top 10 teams.                            In this graph you can see that as turnovers go up that average attendance goes down. This shows us again that teams who see the lowest attendance have a fan base that may change who they cheer for based on how well the team is performing.            4. Conclusion              In this project we looked at NFL attendance and key statistics like winning percentage and turnovers. We analyzed the overall attendance trends as well as looked at how key statistics affected fan attendance. From the analysis questions that we asked these were our findings:       1. What teams have seen an increase in attendance over the years?       We found that the Dallas Cowboys have the highest attendance over the years that we analyzed from 2010 – 2023. We also visualized the top 10 and bottom 10 teams regarding average attendance over the last three years. We found that the top 10 teams saw a pretty steady average attendance, while the bottom 10 saw more volatility in their attendance numbers. Finally, by taking the Fan Attendance from 2023 minus the fan attendance from 2010 we found that Tampa Bay has seen the biggest growth in attendance. 2. Is there a strong correlation between the winning percentage of a team and the attendance for that year? Does there seem to be higher attendance when teams are winning more?       We found that there was a strong correlation between the winning percentage and attendance for that year, but there was not a significant statistical relationship between the two across all of the NFL teams. However, we did find a statistically significant relationship between winning percentage and attendance when looking at the bottom 10 teams in terms of average attendance. This led us to the conclusion that teams who experience less attendance have high validity based on how good they are in that season. While teams in the top 10 in terms of average attendance had not significant relationship meaning that their fans are more loyal.3. What team has seen the highest attendance over the last 3 years? Specifically, what are the three teams that have seen the best attendance over the last three years?       From this question we found that the Dallas Cowboys, Denver Broncos, and New York Giants are the teams that have seen the highest attendance over the last three years. In conjunction with our question 1 analysis we saw that these three teams were at the top of the chart since 2010. This leads us to the conclusion that the Dallas Cowboys, Denver Broncos, and New York Giants have the most loyal fans in the NFL regardless of how the team is performing.4. Is there a strong correlation between turnovers and attendance in that year?       We found that there is a strong correlation between turnovers and attendance in that year across all teams, but not across the top 10 teams. This result shows how loyal the top 10 teams in attendance are. As they attend the games despite the turnovers that are happening in that season.        This project had several limitations in terms of the volume of data used. We only had data from 2010 which could have skewed the historical trends. Additionally, we only looked at the winning percentage and turnovers with correlation of attendance. There could be more statistics that have a bigger effect on attendance. It would be interesting to look at how weather conditions affect attendance. Overall, this project found that the teams who experience the largest attendance have loyal fans whose attendance does not depend on how good the team is in that season, but teams who experience lower attendance numbers see volatility depending on how good or bad the team is in that season.